It was the summer of '19 when my teammate and I began developing a dining assistant for people with arm impairments as part of an internship at the Invention Factory@IIT Gandhinagar (IITGN). While the initial prototype was simple, I quickly realized that making the device work reliably was a difficult task. \textit{Can it always scoop food from the bowl? What happens if food falls off the spoon?} - questions like these kept plaguing me. While the device was programmed for a specific task, I realized that it must also be able to sense and react to changes in the environment. This is exactly what motivates me to apply for an MS in ECE at Purdue University - I seek to explore perception and planning for automatic control of robots.

At IITGN, I used the quadcopter as a testbed for my exploration of robotics. Building every part of a teleoperated quadcopter data acquisition system from scratch taught me a lot about mathematical modelling and electronics. Eventually, a growing interest in autonomous systems led me to explore deep learning via research projects with professors at IITGN on building joint perception and control frameworks for robots. This experience later enabled me to write a paper with my peers titled \textit{"Memory Guided Road Detection"} for accelerating deep learning segmentation models that is accepted for publication at the \textit{21st ICIAP, Italy, 2021}.

Later, I was selected for the MITACS Globalink Internship at Western University, Canada. I was tasked with building a vision framework for predicting plant branching structure for an agricultural robot operating across Canadian greenhouses from a single view. This project was tricky, as leaves occlude significant portions of the stem, making the task under-determined. While intellectually challenging, I was able to come up with a robust method for fitting a plant model onto the observed image - the results of which are going to be submitted to an \textit{IEEE journal} shortly. What intrigued me about this is how easily humans can use prior knowledge to fill in unknowns. But doing the same for a computer is a challenging problem. This inspires me to study image understanding in-depth at graduate school.

The MS ECE program at Purdue is ideally suited to help me achieve my goals. The range of courses from robotics to computer engineering will give me a broad base, while allowing me to focus on areas of my interest, and also allow explore new fields that I haven't yet explored. I am excited at the prospect of working at the ARTLab with \textit{Prof George Lee} on their research on spiking neural networks (SNN). I believe that the efficacy of SNN's for processing spatio-temporal data will be an ideal fit for dynamic realtime applications such as vision based control for quadcopters. Moreover, I am interested in working at the VIPER lab with \textit{Prof Edward Delp} and \textit{Prof Fengquing Zhu}. My background in agricultural robotics will be beneficial in extending their work on image-based plant phenotyping.  

By ranking at the top of my class, being involved in academic research, initiating various student-run programmes, and even serving as Table Tennis secretary, I have matured as a researcher and leader during my time at IITGN - growth that I intend to continue in graduate school. Thus, I am confident that my education and work with faculty at Purdue will prepare me for a career solving complex problems in the industry before becoming a technopreneur in the field of robotics.
